Now that we have seen what
streaming data means,
let’s look at what makes streaming data
different and what some management and
processing challenges for
streaming data are.
After this video you will
be able to compare and
contrast data in motion and data at rest.
Differentiate between streaming and
batch data processing.
And list management and
processing challenges for streaming data.
We often hear the terms data addressed and
data in motion,
when talking about big data management.
Data-at-rest refers to mostly
static data collected from one or
more data sources, and the analysis
happens after the data is collected.
The term data-in-motion refers to a mode
although similar data
collection methods apply,
the data gets analyzed at the same
time it is being generated.
Just like the sensor data processing
in a plane or a self-driving car.
Analysis of data addressed is called
batch or static processing and
the analysis of streaming data
is called stream processing.
The run time and memory usage of most
algorithms that process static data,
is usually dependent on the data size, and
this size can easily be calculated
from files or databases.
A key property, of streaming data
processing is the size of the data
is unbounded and this changes the types
of algorithms that can be used.
Algorithms that require iterating or
looping over the whole data set are not
possible since with stream data,
you never get to the end.
The modeling and management of streaming
data should enable computations on
one data element or a small window
of group of recent data elements.
These computations can update metrics,
monitor and
plot statistics on the streaming data.
Or apply analysis techniques
to the streaming data
to learn about the dynamics of
the system as a time series.
Since computations need to
be completed in real time,
the analysis tasks processing
streaming data should be quicker or
not much longer than
the streaming rate of the data.
Which we define by it's velocity.
In most streaming systems,
the management, and
processing system subscribe to
the data source, but doesn't
send anything back to the stream source
in terms of feedback or interactions.
These requirements for streaming data
processing are quite different than batch
processing where the analytical steps
have access to often, all data and
can take more time to complete a complex
analytical task with less pressure
on the completion time of individual
data management and processing tasks.
Most organizations today
use a hybrid architecture.
Sometimes get referred to as
the lambda architecture for
processing streaming and
back jobs at the same time.
In these systems, streaming wheel over
the real-time data is managed and
kept until those data elements are pushed
to a batch system and become available
to access and process as batch data.
In such systems, a stream storage
layer is used to enable fast
trees of streams and
ensure data ordering and consistency.
And a processing layer for
data is used to retrieve data from
the storage layer to analyze it and
most probably little bit to a batch
data stream and notify the streaming
storage that the data set does no
longer need to be in streaming storage.
The big data challenges we discussed
were scalability, data replication,
and durability, and fault tolerance arise
in this type of data very significantly.
Among many there are two main
challenges that needs to be overcome
to avoid data loss, and
enable real time analytical tasks.
One challenge in streaming data
process is that the size and
frequency of the mean data can
significantly change over time.
These changes can be unpredictable and
may be driven by human behavior.
For example, streaming data found on
social networks such as Facebook and
Twitter can increase in
volume during holidays,
sports matches, or major news events.
These changes can be periodic and occur,
for example, in the evenings or weekends.
For example, people may post messages
on Facebook more in the evening
instead of during the day working hours.
Streaming data changes may also
be unpredictable and sporadic.
There can be an increase in data size and
frequency during during major events,
sporting matches and things like that.
Other changes include dropping or
missing data or even no data
when there are network problems or device
generating the data has hardware problems.
As an example of streaming
data fluctuation,
consider the number of Tweets per second.
On average,
there are 6,000 tweets sent every second.
However, in August 2013,
the world record was
set when over 144,000 tweets
were sent in a second.
That's a factor of 24 increase.
At the end of this lesson we will ask
you to focus on Twitter streams for
trending topics and any other topic.
You will notice how the rates
of Tweets streaming
changes between different times and
different topics.
To summarize, streaming data must be
handled differently than static data.
Unlike static data, where you can
determine the size, streaming data is
continually generated, and
you can not process it all at once.
Streaming data can unpredictably
change in both size and frequency.
This can be due to human behavior.
Finally, algorithms for
processing streaming data must
be relatively fast and simple.
Since you don't know when
the next data arrives.